SOURCE: C:\Users\lulu2\Downloads\7C. CRUD (part 1) nodemon.pdf
PAGES: 26

COMP 1842
Coursework CRUD system part 1
Matt Prichard

-- 1 of 26 --

This is for the coursework
These notes form the first part of the CRUD system you are
making for your course work.
Just getting all this working is no small achievement so go slow.

-- 2 of 26 --

Introduction
This week we will create our sever folder/file structure
Install the necessary dependencies
Set up our basic Node server.
Follow very carefully, if it all goes wrong you can just bin it and
start again.
My materials will be based on me working on Virtual Desktop

-- 3 of 26 --

Finished system demo
http://localhost:8080/words/

-- 4 of 26 --

Based on 	sitepoint 	book

-- 5 of 26 --

Install 	nodemon 	globally
Run this command from your G
Drive
npm 	install 	–g 	nodemon
We can check it has installed
nodemon 	-v

-- 6 of 26 --

https://www.npmjs.com/package/nodemon

-- 7 of 26 --

Creating the Node Back End
This week and next week we’ll create a RESTful API for our Vue
front end to consume and test it using 	PostCode, a VS code
plugin for testing APIs
We won’t want to go into too much detail on how a RESTful API
works this week.

-- 8 of 26 --

Directory structure 	pt 	1
On your G Drive create folder ’vocab-builder’
Please follow the naming conventions and structure exactly
Inside this folder create folder ‘server’

-- 9 of 26 --

Directory structure pt2
Inside server create ‘api’
Inside 	api 	create ’controllers’, ‘models’, ‘routes’

-- 10 of 26 --

Directory structure pt3
Now open folder ‘vocab-builder’ from within VS code

-- 11 of 26 --

Create files
Using the new file icon create the following 3 	js 	files in their
corresponding folders. Be very careful with spelling and Caps

-- 12 of 26 --

Create files pt2
Making sure you are now in the server folder, create 	server.js 	file
Leaving VS code open go to the node 	js 	command prompt

-- 13 of 26 --

Node command prompt
Using cd navigate to 	vocab-builder/server 	in the command
prompt

-- 14 of 26 --

Node command prompt
Once in the server directory run
npm 	init 	-y
npm 	init 	initialises the project and creates our 	package.json 	file

-- 15 of 26 --

npm 	init
When you run the command you should see something like this, with
the package file appearing in your VS code window

-- 16 of 26 --

Structure at this point
Your folder and file structure should match this, if not go no further.

-- 17 of 26 --

Install the dependencies
• 	For our API, we’ll be using the following libraries:
• 	express —a small framework for Node that provides many useful features,
such as routing and middleware.
• 	cors —Express middleware that can be used to enable CORS in our project.
• 	body-parser —Express middleware to parse the body of incoming requests.
• 	mongoose —a MongoDB ODM (the NoSQL equivalent of an ORM) for Node. It
provides a simple validation and query API to help you interact with your
MongoDB database.

-- 18 of 26 --

Install the dependencies
npm 	i 	express 	cors 	body-parser mongoose@6.2.4
Making sure you are still in the server directory run this command in the node
command prompt – notice we are specifying an exact version of mongoose

-- 19 of 26 --

In VS code
You should now see a new folder called node_module that contains many
folders including the one we just asked to install

-- 20 of 26 --

package.json
Open the main package.json file in the server folder and change line8 to read
"start": 	"nodemon 	server.js” 	now save changes

-- 21 of 26 --

Create the server
Copy this code carefully into the 	server.js 	file and save

-- 22 of 26 --

run the server
Go into the terminal and run npm run start. You should see a message that the
server has started on port 3000. If you visit http://localhost:3000/, you should
see “Hello, World!” displayed.

-- 23 of 26 --

nodemon 	working
Leave the server running, go back to VS code and change the message to
include your name, when you save the file. nodemon 	automatically restarts the
server for you without having to run the command again. Control C to stop

-- 24 of 26 --

Enough for one day.
There is a great deal that can go wrong
getting this far, I’ve had all sorts of
difficulties with version control and
constantly updated dependencies etc.
If it all goes horribly wrong just bin it all
and start again, you won't break
anything.

-- 25 of 26 --

?

-- 26 of 26 --

